content/en/modded-os/modded-os.md, before:

---
title: What are Modded OS?
description: "Learn about Andronix Modded OS"
category: Modded OS
position: 4
---

<!-- //todo add an image -->

Modded OS are modified by our team to achieve the maximum performance. We ship it with all the essential software
pre-installed. Themes and icons are selected to match every element of the system.

## When should you choose Modded OS?

Well, every time to don't want to keep yourself busy with optimizing things and fixing those theming issues, finding the
correct PPA for the installation of the working version of the software. All-in-all, it allows you to enjoy Linux
without making you do everything necessary.

## Why should you choose Modded OS?

- Pre-installed themes and customized UI for ready-to-go experience. If you want to use it for your work you will surely
  have an easy and smooth workflow on Modded OS customized UI.
- Daily use software such as Browser, GIMP, File Managers, Visual Studio Code, Music Player, Sticky Notes, Libre Office,
  pre-configured repositories and updated system are delivered to you
- Optimised for performance increase when compared to regular distro
- Separate channel for Modded OS users on our Discord server

## How do they look like?

You can take a look at our [Modded OS Gallery](https://andronix.app/modded-os-gallery/).

## How to install a Modded OS?

You can choose between 4 Modded distributions that Andronix offers.

These are the following things that need to be done before you're ready to use the distro-

- Download the Modded OS file.
- Set up the user, locale and other required things.
- Start the distro with ./andro*{distro}*.sh
- Start the VNC server and connect to it using a VNC-viewer.

## What OS are modded by Andronix?

You can select amongst the following distros-

* Ubuntu XFCE <badge>20.04</badge>
* Ubuntu KDE <badge>18.04</badge>
* Manjaro XFCE <badge>20.04</badge>
* Debian XFCE <badge>10</badge>

Commit message:

modified arrow marker image in modded os section

content/en/modded-os/modded-os.md, after:

---
title: What are Modded OS?
description: "Learn about Andronix Modded OS"
category: Modded OS
position: 4
---

<!-- //todo add an image -->

Modded OS are modified by our team to achieve the maximum performance. We ship it with all the essential software
pre-installed. Themes and icons are selected to match every element of the system.

## When should you choose Modded OS?

Well, every time to don't want to keep yourself busy with optimizing things and fixing those theming issues, finding the
correct PPA for the installation of the working version of the software. All-in-all, it allows you to enjoy Linux
without making you do everything necessary.

## Why should you choose Modded OS?

- Pre-installed themes and customized UI for ready-to-go experience. If you want to use it for your work you will surely
  have an easy and smooth workflow on Modded OS customized UI.
- Daily use software such as Browser, GIMP, File Managers, Visual Studio Code, Music Player, Sticky Notes, Libre Office,
  pre-configured repositories and updated system are delivered to you
- Optimised for performance increase when compared to regular distro
- Separate channel for Modded OS users on our Discord server

## How do they look like?

You can take a look at our [Modded OS Gallery](https://andronix.app/modded-os-gallery/).

## How to install a Modded OS?

You can choose between 4 Modded distributions that Andronix offers.

These are the following things that need to be done before you're ready to use the distro-

- Download the Modded OS file.
- Set up the user, locale and other required things.
- Start the distro with ./andro*{distro}*.sh
- Start the VNC server and connect to it using a VNC-viewer.

For a more verbose guide, please refer to [this section of the docs](/modded-os/modded-os-installation)

## What OS are modded by Andronix?

You can select amongst the following distros-

* Ubuntu XFCE <badge>20.04</badge>
* Ubuntu KDE <badge>18.04</badge>
* Manjaro XFCE <badge>20.04</badge>
* Debian XFCE <badge>10</badge>
